\." $Id$
.\"
.TH RMC 1 "Release 0.1.3" "LLNL" "RMC"

.SH NAME
rmc \- low-level power control

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmc
.I "[-options] [command]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmc
is a low level utility in support of the PowerMan power management 
program.  It communicates with a target node via the conman console
management package and a set of expect scripts for entering into 
interaction with the RMC service processor (on some Alpha-based computers). 
.B rmc
conforms (minimally) to the PowerMan power monitoring interface.  One 
will generally prefer to use 
.B pm
rather than this low-level utility, but its use is not forbidden to root
priveledged users.  
.B rmc
does implement the 
.I "-f fanout"
option and will attempt to run the given command with as much concurrence 
as it is allowed.  
Options are described in TARGET NODE LIST OPTIONS and OTHER OPTIONS below.
.LP
The POWERMAN environment variable, if set, identifies an alternate 
directory fo the PowerMan libraries and configuration files.

.SH TARGET NODE LIST OPTIONS
.I "-w host,host,..."
Target the specified nodes.  No spaces are allowed in the comma-separated
list.  Substituting the "-" character for the list causes the target nodes
to be read from stdin, one per line.
.B rmc
does not have a configuration file and will attempt to establish a
conman session with each node named.  There is no
.I "-a"
option.

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.LP
.I "-f number"
Set the maximum concurrency, currently unused.  
.I "-l powermandir"
Provide an alternate location for the PowerMan libraries.
.LP
.I "-v"
be verbose, i.e. print error messages rather than dying quietly.

.SH "FILES"
$powermandir/bin/rmc
.br

.SH "ORIGIN"
Developed by Andrew  Uselton <useton2@llnl.gov> on LLNL's Alpha and
Intel Linux clusters.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
pm(1), digi(1), etherwake(1), wti(1)

